# IAM (Identity Access Management)

IAM is the service where AWS user accounts and their access to various AWS services is managed. The common use cases of IAM is tp manage:

1. Users
2. Groups
3. Access policies
4. Roles
5. User Credentials
6. User Password policies
7. MFA i.e. Multi-Factor Authentication
8. API keys for programmatic access

The user created when you create a new AWS account is called the root user. By default, the root user has full administrative rights. Any new or additional users created in the AWS account are created with no access to any AWS resources. The only granted access is the ability to login.

For a user to access any AWS service, permission must be granted to that user, which is managed in/by IAM.

## IAM Best Practices

AWS best practices are the guidelines that recommend settings, configurations, and architecture for maintaining a high level of security, accessibility and efficiency.

1. Users: Create individual users
2. Groups: Manage permissions with groups
3. PErmissions: Grant least privilege
4. Auditing: Turn on AWS cloudTrail
5. Password: Configure a strong password policy
6. MFA: Enable MFA for privileged users
7. Roles: Use IAM roles for Amazon EC2 instances
8. Sharing: Use IAM roles to share access
9. Rotate: Rotate security credentials regularly
10. Conditions: Restrict privileged access further with conditions
11. Root: Reduce or remove root user
11. When a new AWS root account is created, it is best practice to complete the tasks listed in IAM under security status, including:

    a. Delete your root access keys
    b. Activate MFA on your root account
    c. Create individual IAM users
    d. Use groups to assign permissions
    e. Apply an IAM password policy
    
You should not use root account for day to day administration. Create a user, give it full administrator access and use it for daily work.

## Deeper dive: Users, Groups, Policies

1. IAM user:

Has three components: Username, Password and policies that define permissions. By default, any IAM user has no access to AWS services. Because AWS works on principal of least privileges.

2. IAM Groups:

There are scenarios where many users in a company needs same permissions to perform tasks. Example, working with S3 etc. In such scenario we will create a group, attach the policy to the group and add all users to that group to perform the task, which reduces the redundant work of attaching policies to every user for performing same task.

3. IAM Roles:

Sometimes there are AWS services that needs access rights to use other AWS services. Example, EC2 needs to access/save data in S3 bucket. In such scenario we need to create role and attach the access policy to the role.

4. Policies

Policies are assigned to users and groups to grant access to AWS resources.

## IAM Key points:

1. IAM is Global (creating user or groups).
2. Access AWS via Console, programmatically using CLI or SDK.
3. Root account is the email address you used to set up your AWS account.
    a) Root user always has full administrator access.
    b) Secure using MFA.

### Useful links to official AWS site :

1. [AWS IAM](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/)