# S3 (Simple Storage Service)

S3 provides secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage. Its an online, bulk storage that anyone can access from any device. It is object based-storage which is used to store files anywhere from 0 bytes to 5TB, opposite to block storage(you install OS where you will install a database server).
The data is spread across multiple devices and multiple facilities.
The storage is unlimited and files are stored in buckets.
Files uploaded in S3 can be from 0 bytes to 5 TB.

## Basics

S3 is a universal namespace meaning the bucket name is unique globally.

By default anything uploaded in S3 bucket is not public.

When you upload a file successfully, you will receive HTTP 200.

S3 is object based that consists of key i.e. file name and value i.e. data made up of bytes.

Version ID when you upload same file multiple times.

Metadata and Subresources (Access Control List and Torrent)

## Data Consistency model for S3 (IMP for exam)

1. Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new objects.

If you put a new file in S3, you will be immediately able to read it from S3.

2. Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take sometime to propagate).

If you upload a newer version of the existing file, you might read the older version of the file when try to read it. Similarly, you might be able to access the file from S3 bucket for sometime after deleting. It takes some time for changes to come in affect. Eventual consistency for overwrites PUTS and DELETES.

## S3 service gurantees

1. Built for 99.99% availability for S3 platform.
2. Amazon guarantees 99.9% availability and 99.999999999% (11x9s)durability.

## S3 Features

1. Tiered Storage
2. Lifecycle Management
3. Versioning
4. Encryption
5. Secure data using ACL(Access Control List its on file level) and Bucket Policies(its on bucket level).

## S3 Different Storage Classes and Comparisons:
1. S3 Storage:
99.99% availability and 99.999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.<b>Frequently accessed data</b>.

2. Standard - IA (Infrequently Accessed):
For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3 standard, but are charged a retrieval fee.<b>Long-lived, infrequently accessed data</b>.

3. S3 One Zone - IA:
For scenarios with lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availability Zone data resilience.<b>Long-lived, infrequently accessed, non-critical data</b>.

4. S3 - Intelligent Tiering:
Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead. <b>Long-lived data with changing or unknown access patterns.</b>

5. S3 Glacier:
S3 Glacier is secure, durable and low-cost storage class for data archiving. You can store any amount of data at costs that are competitive with or cheaper than on-premises solutions. Retrieval times configurable from minutes to hours.

6. S3 Glacier Deep Archive:
S3 Glacier Deep Archive is Amazon S3's lowest-cost storage class where a retrieval time of 12 hours is acceptable.

| Feature | S3 Standard | S3 Intelligent Tiering | S3 Standard-IA | S3 One Zone-IA | S3 Glacier | S3 Glacier Deep Archive |
|-------|----|-----|-----|-----|-|-|
| Durability | 11 9's | 11 9's | 11 9's | 11 9's | 11 9's | 11 9's |
| Availability | 99.99% | 99.9% | 99.9% | 99.5% | N/A | N/A |
| Availability SLA | 99.9% | 99% | 99% | 99% | N/A | N/A |
| Availability Zones | >=3 | >=3 | >=3 | 1 | >=3 | >=3 |
| Minimum capacity charge per object | N/A | N/A | 128kb | 128kb | 40kb | 40kb |
| Minimum Storage duration charge | N/A | 30days | 30days | 30days | 90days | 180days |
| Retrieval Fee | N/A | N/A | per GB retrieved | per GB retrieved | per GB retrieved | per GB retrieved |
| First Byte latency | milliseconds | milliseconds | milliseconds | milliseconds | select minutes or hours | select hours |

## S3 Charges

1. Storage
2. Requests
3. Storage Management Pricing
4. Data Transfer Pricing
5. Transfer Acceleration

Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfer of files over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge location. As the data arrives at an edge locations, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

6. Cross Region Replication Pricing

A user uploads file in one region and it is replicated automatically to the buckets in another region.

# Restricting Bucket Access

1. Bucket Policies: This is applied across the whole bucket.
2. Object Policies: This is applied to individual files.
3. IAM Policies to Users and Groups: This is applied to Users and Groups. Example, HR department cannot access Financial Department files.

### Useful links to official AWS site :

1. [AWS S3 details](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)