# Databases

There are two main category of databases:
1. Relational database known as "SQL"
2. Non-Relational database known as "NoSQL"

## RDS (Relational Database: SQL/OLTP)

RDS is an SQL database service that provides a wide range of SQL database options to select from:

a. SQL Server
b. Oracle
c. MySQL Server
d. PostgreSQL
e. Aurora
f. MariaDB

RDS has two key feature:

1. Multi-AZ: You can have multi-AZ for disaster recovery.
2. Read replicas: Read replicas copies production db, send EC2 instance to read traffic from read replicas instead of production db. This improves performance.
You can have 5 copies of database.

## DynamoDB (Non Relational Databases: No SQL)

DynamoDB is a NoSQL database service. It stores data in JSON-like, name-value documents.

OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) vs OLAP (Online Analytics Processing)

OLTP : Pulls order number. Pulls up a row of data such as Name, Date, Address to deliver to etc.

OLAP: Pulls in large number of records.

## Redshift (Data Warehousing: OLAP)

Used for business intelligence. Tools like Cognos, SQL Server Reporting Services, etc.

Used to pull in very large and complex data sets. Usually used by management to do queries on data (such as current performance vs targets etc).

## ElasticCache (AWS webservice)

ElastiCache is a caching most common query and takes away massive load on the database. Gives much better performance.

ElasticCache is a web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale an in-memory cache in the cloud. The service improves the performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from fast, managed, in-memory caches, instead of relying entirely on slower disk-based databases.

ElastiCache supports two open-source in-memory caching engines:

1. Memcahced
2. Redis

ElastiCache is used to speed up performance of existing databases (frequently identical queries).

## Useful links

1. [AWS databases](https://aws.amazon.com/products/databases/)
2. [AWS RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/?c=db&sec=srv)
3. [AWS DynamoDB]