# AWS Inspector and AWS Trusted Advisor and CloudTrail

## AWS Inspector

It is an automated security assessment service that helps improve the security and compliance of applications deployed on AWS. Amazon Inspector automatically assesses applications for vulnerabilities or deviations from best practices. After performing an assessment, Amazon Inspector produces a detailed list of security findings prioritized by level of severity.

AWS Inspector is an agent that you install on your EC2 instances, that will look through for the common vulnerabilities. It is using some assessment using that can tell if any port is open, or any patch is missing etc. It will generate a report.

Remember it is related to EC2, that is installed on EC2 that inspect the environment.

## AWS Trusted Advisor

An online resource to help you reduce cost, increase performance, and improve security by optimizing your AWS environment. It provides real time guidance to help you provision your resources following AWS best practices.

AWS Trusted advisor advices you on:
    a. Cost Optimization
    b. PErformance
    c. Security
    d. Fault Tolerance

It includes core checks and recommendations which is free.

Full trusted advisor - Business and Enterprise only.

##  CloudTrail

AWS CloudTrail increases visibility into your user and resource activity by recording AWS management console actions and API calls. You can identify which users and accounts called AWs, the source IP address from which the calls were made, and when the calls occurred.

### Useful links to official AWS site :

1. [AWS Inspector](https://aws.amazon.com/inspector/)
2. [AWS Trusted Advisor](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/technology/trusted-advisor/)
3. [AWS CloudTrail](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/)