# Cloud Concepts

## What is Cloud Computing?

Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of compute, database storage, applications, and other IT resources through a cloud services platform via the internet with pay as you go pricing.

## 6-Advantages of Cloud Computing

1. Trade Capital Expense For Variable Expense.

Instead of investing heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you're going to use them, you can pay only when you consume computing resources, and pay only for how much you consume.

2. Benefit from massive economies of scale

You will never have the same purchasing power as Amazon.

3. Stop guessing about the capacity

You will probably either buy too much where you will end up paying for resources you don't use or too little where you might face downtime in your business. In cloud computing, it will scale up the resources with your business needs, with no long term contract. It can be achieved by add cloud metrics

4. Increase speed and agility

You can set up a free-tier account in AWS management console, and start spinning up serves as per your business needs. You can increase speed and agility in moving into the cloud.

5. Stop Worrying about Infrastructure

You can focus on managing your resources and data to support your business. And AWS takes care of managing the infrastructure like data centers etc.

6. Go Global in minutes

Easily deploy your application in multiple regions around the world with just a few clicks. This means you can provide lower latency and better experience for your customers at minimal cost.

## Cloud Computing Types

Three different types of Cloud Computing :

1. IAAS i.e. Infrastructure As A Service

IAAS is the basic layer in cloud computing. You manage the servers and operating systems. Usually the data center provider will have no access to your server. Its a pay-as-you-go for services like networking, storage and virtualization. Examples of IAAS are Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure etc.

2. PAAS i.e. Platform As A Service

PAAS is a cloud computing model in which a third party provider delivers hardware and software tools to the users, usually those needed for application development. User can focus on their application and the provider takes care of security patching, updates, maintenance etc. Examples of PAAS are AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure, etc.

3. SAAS i.e Software As A Service

SAAS is a software distribution model in which a third party provider hosts applications and makes them available to the customer. Example include gmail, dropbox etc.

## Cloud Computing Deployments

Three different types of Cloud Computing Deployments are :

1. Public Cloud

Public cloud are provided by third-party providers over the public internet, which are available to anyone who wants to use or purchase them.

2. Hybrid Cloud

Mixture of Public and private cloud.

3. Private Cloud (On-premises)

Managing data centers on premises.

