# Create AWS Account

Best way to get started is to create an account on [AWS console](https://signin.aws.amazon.com/signin?redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.aws.amazon.com%2Fconsole%2Fhome%3Fstate%3DhashArgs%2523%26isauthcode%3Dtrue&client_id=arn%3Aaws%3Aiam%3A%3A015428540659%3Auser%2Fhomepage&forceMobileApp=0).

Steps to sign-up to AWS:

1. Sign up for a free-tier account on AWS. You get 12-months of free services. Read the details on the AWS free-tier page while creating a free account.

2. After signing-up for the account, select the right plan out of 4-different support plans available.
Read more about different support plans offered by AWS:
a. [Brief information about AWS support plans](https://github.com/supriya-s-jadhav/AWS-Certifications/blob/master/1.AWS%20Cloud%20Practitioner/1.Cloud%20Concepts%20And%20Technology/Support%20Plans.md)
b. [Support plans on AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/plans/)

3. Sign-in to the management console using the credentials you used to create the free-tier account. Congratulations!! You are in AWS-console to free to explore all services.


## Create a Billing alarm

Its a good practice to create a billing alarm. Though most of the AWS services are free, some of the services are charged if you exceed the limit. For example, in free-tier yo can use Amazon EC2 750 hours free per month, Amazon S3 5 GB free etc.

While setting up the AWS for your requirements, there is possibility that you will exceed the free-tier limit. In such situation, setting up a billing alarm to track your expenditure is a good idea.

1. Log-in to your AWS console. Go to the AWs service "CloudWatch".

2. Click on billing in left-navigation console.

3. Select Create Alarm -> Select Metric -> Billing -> Total Estimated Charge -> Select Metric : Define threshold amount $10 -> Create new SNS topic "BillingAlarm" : Enter email id and create topic (approve the request to entered email id) -> Enter Alarm name and description -> <b>Create Alarm</b>


### Useful links to official AWS site :

1. [Create new AWS account with 12-months of free tier access](https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup?redirect_url=https%3A%2F%2Faws.amazon.com%2Fregistration-confirmation#/start)

2. [Learn more about AWS free tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/?audit=2019q1&all-free-tier.sort-by=item.additionalFields.SortRank&all-free-tier.sort-order=asc)