# AWS Global Infrastructure

The AWS Global Infrastructure consists of 22 launched regions, 5 announced regions around the world with 69 availability zones as per Feb 2020.

Region
------------------------------------------|
|                                         |
|  |--------------|    |--------------|   |
|  | Availability |    | Availability |   |
|  |    Zone      |    |     Zone     |   |
|  |  |--------|  |    |  |--------|  |   |
|  |  |  Data  |  |    |  |  Data  |  |   |
|  |  | Center |  |    |  | Center |  |   |
|  |  |        |  |    |  |        |  |   |
|  |  |--------|  |    |  |--------|  |   |
|  |--------------|    |--------------|   |
|-----------------------------------------|

## 1. Regions

A region is a physical location around the world. Each AWS region consists of multiple, isolated and physically separate Availability Zone's within a geographic region.


## 2. Availability Zones

An Availability zone is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power, networking and connectivity in an AWS region. All Az's in an AWS Region are interconnected. All traffic between Az's is encrypted. The latency between AZs is <10ms.

## 3. Local Zones

Local zones can be used to run the latency-sensitive applications closer to end-users. AWS Local Zones are a new type of AWS infrastructure deployment that places AWS compute, storage, database, and other select services closer to large population, industry, and IT centers where no AWS Region exists today. With AWS Local Zones, you can easily run latency-sensitive portions of applications local to end-users and resources in a specific geography, delivering single-digit millisecond latency for use cases such as media & entertainment content creation, real-time gaming, reservoir simulations, electronic design automation, and machine learning.

## 4. Data Centers

Inside an Availability zone is/are one or more Data Centers, which contain the physical servers that run AWS resources.

## 5. Edge Locations

Edge location are the endpoints for AWS which are used for caching content. It is used by CloudFront, Amazon's content delivery service to cache the content for faster delivery to users at any location.

### Useful links to official AWS site :

1. [AWS Global](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/)
2. [AWS Regions and AZs](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/?p=ngi&loc=2)
3. [AWS Local Zones](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/localzones/)
